Editorial changes for abi3 (#1)
isuruf/ceps: cep-abi3.md

<tr><td> Status </td><td> Draft </td></tr>
<tr><td> Author(s) </td><td> Isuru Fernando &lt;ifernando@quansight.com&gt;</td></tr>
<tr><td> Created </td><td> July 01, 2024</td></tr>
<tr><td> Updated </td><td> Nov 26, 2024</td></tr>
<tr><td> Discussion </td><td> https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/86 </td></tr>
<tr><td> Implementation </td><td> https://github.com/conda/conda-build/pull/5456 </td></tr>
</table>

## Abstract

This CEP specifies how `abi3` Python packages are supported in conda install tools
(conda/mamba/micromamba/pixi) and how they are built in conda build tools
(conda-build/rattler-build).

## Motivation

When building extensions for Python, they might use Python minor version
specific symbols. This results in the extension being usable only on that minor
version. These extensions are identified by the extension suffix.
For example, `foo.cpython-310-x86_64-linux-gnu.so` is an extension that
supports only CPython 3.10 on the `x86_64-linux-gnu` platform.

However, some symbols are available in all Python major.minor versions with some
lower bound on the Python version. These symbols are part of the

> [limited C API][C_API_Stability]. It is guaranteed that the symbols Stable ABI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[limited C API][C_API_Stability]. It is guaranteed that the symbols in limited C API
```

introduced in Python 3.X are available in Python 3.Y for any `Y >= X`.
Extensions using only these symbols are identified by the extension suffix
`abi3.so`. For example, `foo.abi3.so`.

These extensions only support the platform it was built for (e.g.
`x86_64-linux-gnu`), but this is not specified in the extension suffix.

Note that the stable ABI is only specific to CPython and is not compatible with
PyPy or other Python implementations. For a Python implementation independent
ABI, see the [HPy project][HPy].

The motivation for building `abi3` packages is that we only need to build the
extension for one Python version and the extension will work for any Python
later version. This reduces the build matrix from 4-5 Python minor versions to one
Python minor version and reduces the maintenance burden of package builders.

## noarch: Python packages

`abi3` packages are Python version independent and we will first look at
`noarch: python` packages that are also Python version independent and in addition
are arch-independent.

`noarch: python` packages have several attributes to them:

- **A1**:
 They have `subdir: noarch` in `info/index.json`.

- **A2**:

>  They have `noarch: Python` in `info/index.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 They have `noarch: python` in `info/index.json`.
```
